I wanted to try something here.
This is an Automator session and
I've got a keynote presentation.
So let's see what we can do here.
Don't look at that one.
Oh, geez, I forgot to close it.
Automator happens to have
some keynote actions,
one of which is start
the keynote slideshow.
That'll tell Keynote to get going.
That's another one.
Stop the keynote slideshow.
That's the one I chose.
I didn't intend to choose that one.
I thought we'd be done quicker that way
if I chose that one right off the bat.
And I happen to have this little command
line tool I wrote called Clapper Tool.
And here comes a little experiment
that may or may not work.
No, no, no, hold your applause.
You'll totally mess this up.
I'm serious.
Automator already has a run shell
script action in which you can type a
shell script command of your choice.
So I'm going to tell it to do that.
The Clapper.
All right, and we're going to run it.
Just please, we're going to run this.
Hang on, here we go.
Ready?
Everybody ready?
Thank you.
- Stop, no, you're gonna, hold it.
We're on slide 39 already
with all that clapping.
So we're gonna talk about
building actions for system
administrators in terms of,
by the way, where's the little clicker?
Nobody gave me the little clicker.
I'll have to keep coming back over.
Thanks.
We're going to talk about using
Automator with the shell and perl and
other scripting languages like that.
There is some new stuff that's
just been added to Automator
in the Xcode 2.1 build.
Who's installed the 2.1 build?
Who wondered what that was on
the front list of packages about
shell Automator Actions and so on?
Well, you've come to the right place.
We're going to talk about using the run
shell script action that I just used
there where I typed a little fragment of
shell script to cause it to run a tool.
We're also going to talk,
this is my favorite part though,
building new actions with this
thing called AM Shell Script Action.
This is an interesting new way to
build GUIs on top of shell scripts
as part of the Automator Workflow.
We're going to talk about
mixing all this stuff together.
I'm not going to tell you every
detail about the born shell and
perl and ruby and other languages.
I bought the ruby book at O'Reilly's
over there earlier and briefly
considered attempting to write
a ruby script here during the demo.
But frankly, I'm getting behind on
reading my O'Reilly books.
Every time I come to WWDC,
I buy about 12 more.
And a year later,
I've read about three of them.
And then I come here and I think I've
got this much space on my shelf at home.
How many books have you got that can
fit in eight and three-quarter inches,
you know, with birds on the cover?
I'd like a few more birds.
Oh, totally off track.
And we're not going to talk about
AppleScript or Cocoa Stages,
and I'm not going to tell
you every little detail of
Interface Builder or Xcode,
because there are 83 trillion little
details of Interface Builder and Xcode,
many of which you can
ignore in this session.
So let me just do a quick
review of Automator.
Can we go back to demo two over here?
Nobody uses demo one, do they?
So here's Automator.
And you're probably familiar
with a lot of these actions
that are in here already,
but the neat thing that you can
do with these new Automator shell
actions is that you can build a whole
new class of actions here where you
get to design a user interface and
interface builder and have a shell
script execute in the background.
Here's one I wrote.
A little while ago,
we were having fun with
this one the other day.
This turns the system identifier light on
an XServe on and off and will optionally
flash out messages in Morse code.
People think that the XServe
doesn't have a display,
but it really has a one-by-one
yellow and off display.
We were having great fun in the
data center yesterday with this.
All the machines in the rack were
flashing their host name in Morse code.
Kind of a useful system of min tool.
If you can't remember what that one is,
just watch it for a little while.
So this is actually running,
this is a GUI that you
design in Interface Builder.
I'm going to show you all this stuff.
And then it runs a command.
It runs an actual Unix command.
I have a tool called Identifier
Light that flashes SOS on
all the lights if you want.
And there are a variety of interesting
ways you can build actions in this way.
I wrote a little The Clapper action where
I can say how many claps I want to do.
Five claps, four, three, two,
for instance.
But my mic is actually on that
computer so there's no need to try.
I'll be showing you a few
more of these as we go along.
There's one here that sorts items,
for instance.
This takes text from another action
and runs the Unix sort command.
And you get to decide in your UI that
you build how you want the user to pick
whether it's going forwards or backwards.
Or do you want to have a pop-up
list to select numerically
or alphabetically and so on.
So this is, I think,
a fun new frontier in building Automator
Actions for those of us who still
use VI to edit our Info.plist files.
How many people edit
an Info.plist with VI?
Good.
Go back to the slides for a minute.
Improved already,
can you believe that this thing
which has been out for three
weeks has already been improved?
Matter of fact it has,
there is an improved
run shell script action.
Which is better than the old one.
Now here's the minor problem.
The new improved run shell
script is not technically in the
Xcode 2.1 build that you have.
It is in the build that I have.
I didn't realize this until yesterday,
until I built several dozen
slides talking about the
new run shell script action.
The more exciting part is
the AM shell script action,
where you can build the graphical
interfaces with interface builder.
You'll get that in Xcode 2.1.
You'll be getting the new run
shell script action shortly,
they tell me, in a software update,
let's hope.
That's what the old one looked like.
This is what the new one looks like.
It's a little bit better.
You can pick your shell of
choice on a pop-up menu.
It's got a number of,
I don't want to say bug fixes,
but shall we say improvements or
enhancements in the way it can
handle anything other than the
most trivial line of shell code.
A minor issue with the old one.
Coming real, real soon.
I'm going to be showing you that one.
I had the old one on here for my
Clapper action just to prove to
you that that one actually works.
We run the new one over there.
More excitingly is this thing
called AM Shell Script Action,
which is really a new
project template in Xcode.
If you start up Xcode 2.1,
you're going to see something
called a Shell Script Automator
Action as one of the project types.
So let's talk about these actions
in general and how the shell script
action differs from the Apple script
action or the Cocoa action
that you may have seen already.
The whole idea of Automator Workflows
is to take a bunch of actions,
string them together, you know,
and there's a whole bunch
that come with Automator.
There are these generic run-shell-script
and run-Apple-script actions where you
can type a little bit of code in a window
like I did with that clapper thing and,
you know, dispense with any fancy UI.
Or you can create your own,
and this is where this actually
gets pretty interesting,
I think.
A Cocoa Action,
if you looked at the package,
would look like that.
You'd find,
you'll always find an Info.plist,
a nice XML file that describes
what every action does,
what kind of input it takes,
what kind of output it produces.
In a Cocoa Action,
you'll find an executable
file in a Mac OS folder,
a piece of compiled code,
and you'll find a user interface,
a nib file from Interface Builder.
In an AppleScript Action,
you'll find much the same thing,
except you'll have an actual script file
rather than the compiled piece of code.
They both have an Info.plist to
specify parameters.
And they both have a nib file
for specifying the interface.
These new shell actions
are the same general idea,
except that there's always a file
in there called main.command.
You can't really change this name.
It has to be main.command.
But you can add whatever Perl code
or shell code or awk or grep or
t-rof or whatever you want in there
to produce a graphical action.
Who enjoys talking like a
caveman when they're talking
about Unix command line things?
Awk, grep, trough.
Ask me why it's called awk.
No, ask me why it's called grep.
That's even better.
Why is it called grep?
I don't know why people
find this to be difficult.
I mean, this is the power of Macintosh
and the simplicity of Unix
all rolled in together here.
These actions you're going
to find are describing what
application they belong to.
Now the shell ones that we're
going to write don't really
belong to an actual application.
They're going to be marked as
if they belong to terminal,
but they're not really running terminal.
But you'll see them in
the terminal category.
And actions also talk about types
of input and types of output.
And all that stuff is
in the Info.plist file.
And somewhere else is the
actual executable code.
We script people.
We love the ones that handle text.
Take text as input, write text as output.
Lots of certain Automator
Actions produce text already,
but there are plenty
of others that don't.
We get to write our own text actions
here that talk to each other via
standard input and standard output,
if you're familiar with that
idea from shell programming.
Perhaps this reminds you of Unix pipes.
Does anyone have Unix pipes?
Little blobs of useful functionality
that you string together,
the data flows through from
the top down to the bottom.
I've been learning recently,
I was trying to think of a good example,
and I've been quite interested
recently in the pancreas.
I've been learning quite a
bit about the pancreas lately.
And I was considering constructing
some kind of a workflow that sort
of mimicked the digestive system,
where you have a mouth and a
throat object and a stomach,
and a pancreas object would
secrete enzyme objects into
this small intestine object.
And I decided not to do that particular
demo because that particular workflow
often reverses and goes the other way.
Automator is very much a one-way process,
much like a traditional Unix script.
This is the actual first Unix
script I ever saw in London,
Ontario, at a meeting of some group
where Brian Kernighan,
one of the fathers of Unix,
came to speak,
and he talked about software tools.
And the whole software tools idea was
an approach where you wrote little tools
that did one thing and one thing well.
He got talking about all these odd
tools like cat and tr and sort,
and my first reaction was that, you know,
what kind of an idiotic
name for a command is cat?
Short for catnate,
which is apparently a word
that means produce text.
And he told us about
all these little tools,
and he types this little
pipe on the flight,
type, type, type.
And I don't quite get what this is.
The first one is displaying a file.
The second one, he assured me,
was translating everything that
wasn't a character to a new line.
In effect, putting everything that wasn't
alphabetic became a new line so that
the words would be one on the line.
The third one is making
everything lowercase,
and then we're sorting them,
and then we're uniquing them to
make sure there's no more than
one adjacent occurrence of a word.
And then we're comparing them
to the system dictionary.
So what is this doing?
Spell checking, right?
It's a bunch of little tools that
perform spell checking in this way.
And I saw that example, and I thought,
let's, you could actually do this.
Let's do that today in Automator.
Got to start somewhere.
We'll start with a
30-year-old shell script.
So let's see.
Little tip for you.
By the way, you can save interesting
workflows down here in Automator
and replay them on demand.
You can actually double click
here and individually put these
items into your current workflow.
Seriously, if you have actions
that you've customized,
your favorite collections of actions,
put them into one big, hog,
and pointless workflow,
whether it makes any sense or not,
and then keep that down here.
You've now got your own private
little library of my favorite
10 of the 150 Automator Actions.
So if we wanted to do spell
checking in the Unix way,
we might start out by getting the
contents of a text edit document.
I have a text edit document here.
I'm not a very good speller,
but I was reviewing the names
of various Mac OS X releases.
Text edit document.
And then we want to run a Unix script.
We want to do the exact same
thing that we saw in that pipe.
We want to essentially convert all of the
non-alphabetic characters to new lines,
so all the words will be one on a line.
And then we want to run another one.
We want to make all the words lowercase.
This is running the TR program
to make everything lowercase.
Then we're going to sort them
and we're going to unique them.
And so you see I'm adding individual
stages to my Automator workflow that
really are being hooked up like pipes
in the traditional Unix piping process.
Sorry?
Zoom.
Zoom, zoom, zoom.
Here we go.
So these are all pretty boring.
I mean,
they're a little -- I'm giving you --
I could do -- is this giving anyone a
Are you loving the year of HD where
we're using even smaller fonts than we
ever did before just because we can?
Isn't that exciting?
How about I zoom out a little bit there?
Each of these is one of these run
shell script stages where I've
typed in a little fragment of
shell script and the output of one
becomes the input of the next one.
Very much like that Unix pipeline.
And the final one is perhaps the most
useful Automator stage of the 150,
view results.
You're going to find
yourself using this a lot.
This is a stage you can
drop in and it just says,
here's what I got.
Here's what I got from
the previous stage.
It will, if you like,
pass it along to the next stage.
So it's a fine debugging tool to
drop here and there in Automator.
So I'm going to run this.
Let's try running this.
And hopefully we come up
with a few misspelled words.
Oh, there we go.
A few misspelled words.
The word and is apparently
not in the system dictionary.
That's most unfortunate.
Huh?
That's better.
was doing so well, boy.
And we'll add View Results.
Thank you,
we're comparing it to the dictionary,
then we're gonna View Results.
I thought and was a
correctly spelled word.
I was really quite confident.
Thank you.
I can't spell it all.
Now stop.
No, I mean,
you could do that on the command line.
Why is this necessarily a big deal?
Well, it's the same sort of
idea as Unix piping.
I'm going to let you in on a secret.
Automator was originally
designed as a tool for stringing
shell scripts together.
All this Apple script and Cocoa stuff,
with all due respect to the
many fine Apple script and
Cocoa programmers here in the room,
was kind of an afterthought
that was bolted onto this site.
It's primarily a shell scripting tool.
I think it's misunderstood.
It was, what is the Automator
guy holding in the icon?
He's holding a pipe.
He's holding a section of pipe.
It used to be called,
anybody know what it used to be called?
It used to be called Pipeline.
That's right,
it used to be called Pipeline.
Then after that it was called Executor,
briefly.
And after that it was called,
for a brief two-hour period,
Apple Script Composer, I think,
and that was short-lived.
Then it got renamed to,
I can't even remember what it is now,
Automator.
Last year at WWDC there
had been all these changes.
Anybody who was talking about this tool,
you could detect them pausing when
they stated the name of the program
because they had to think for a moment,
what was it called now?
And I have it on pretty good authority
that the Automator team actually wrote an
Automator Workflow to rename all the code
in the project as the API kept changing,
you know?
Glad they haven't had to
run that program this year.
So there's my little Unix pipe.
But really, we can do better.
This isn't a pipe
I would expect to share,
necessarily, with other people.
I wouldn't want to call you and say,
type in tr A to Z A to Z.
No, no, no, capital A, capital Z.
No, no, with a space in between them.
I'm not going to expect
people to type that in.
But I happen to have pre-built a
number of Automator actions that
do many of these same things.
Like, for instance,
in my terminal category over here,
I can delete these two,
the ones that put them one word to a
line-- I'll take that one out-- and
the one that makes them all lowercase.
Because I happen to
have written an action,
one of these shell actions,
called convert words of text.
And this is really running those
exact same tools under the covers,
except you get a little bit of a UI that
was designed here in Interface Builder.
I want to convert them
to one word per line,
remove punctuation.
What kind of case do you want to make?
I want to make them lowercase.
So there's a better looking action
that does very much the same thing.
In fact, if I run this workflow,
since all these actions are
producing text and emitting text,
it still produces the same list
of misspelled words at the bottom.
I think you would agree.
This one's a little easier to manipulate,
and in particular,
to share with other users than
anything based on the shell
script actually would be.
I'm going to teach you how to
design things like this so that
you can wrap these shell commands
with a nice graphical interface,
give those to other people.
I can delete these other ones, too.
This one sorts,
and this one uniques them.
I happen to have one here called
sort items that you can say,
on what column do you
want to sort them on?
Do you want to go forwards or backwards?
Let's remove the duplicates.
So there we go, the same way.
You build up over a while a collection of
these little text processing actions that
I think makes your life a lot easier.
I think I've finally reached Automator
nirvana in that I can write a workflow
now without having to stop partway
through and invent a new action.
There was a long time there where
I'd have something I wanted to do,
and I'd get partway into it,
and I'd think, gosh,
this would be a great
shell action in Automator.
And I'd dash off into the tool
and actually build things.
But once you get your own little
library of these things together,
you can start sharing
them with other people,
too.
You can take each of these actions
and put them in Library Automator,
and other people can run them as well.
If we could go back to the slides,
please.
So.
So how do these things actually work?
Good question.
This is the new run shell script action.
Let me talk about the one where you
just type a fragment of shell script
for a moment before we discuss the
ones where you actually build a
GUI that talks to the shell script.
This is a simple action with a
text field in it where you can
type up a little bit of shell,
a little bit of perl,
a little bit of awk, whatever you like.
Choose how you want the input
to be handled as command line
arguments or as standard input,
and it will pass it on to the next
Automator Action in the workflow.
You have a choice of a whole
bunch of interesting scripting
languages on Mac OS X.
In fact,
this new version of run-shell script
that you're going to get real soon
now actually comes with a bunch of
templates for different languages.
These are individual templates
for a variety of different
programming languages.
Oh, boy.
Hands off the build.
Don't clap.
[Transcript missing]
I think I've blown it again.
You know what?
This is an automatic build, isn't it?
Oh, I need a workflow here.
I need a workflow to pause the,
don't go to the next slide unless
at least five seconds have elapsed.
Whew, there we go.
These are examples in Automator
of this new shell scripting.
You can choose a scripting
language on that little pop-up,
and you can choose whether you
want to handle input as standard
input or as individual arguments,
and it will cough up a little
fragment in the appropriate
programming language for you there.
The most basic one in a shell,
the one on the top left, the cat command,
the good old cat command,
all it does is copies
its input to its output.
Maybe a good one to try first.
I wouldn't try selling
that one necessarily.
But it gives you a start.
Now,
I enjoyed the Ruby ones at the bottom.
I stared at these two
Ruby examples for the longest time,
not knowing a lot about Ruby.
And I was this close to
filing a bug report claiming
that they were both the same,
that we'd done something wrong.
We had the same thing for standard
input and for command line arguments.
It turns out there is an F in
that one and a V in that one
that I almost didn't quite see.
Anyway.
I enjoy Ruby.
Are there any actual
Ruby programmers here?
It seems to have a lot
of coolness about it.
Is that true?
Yeah?
Am I gonna like it better than Python?
Perl?
Boren Shell and VI is the
king of integrated development
environments as well.
Oh, who's hissing?
Are there Emacs programmers,
users in here?
VI, VI users?
Who calls it VI?
Who calls it SIX?
I used to.
We Canadians, we often pronounce things
in interesting ways.
For a long time we were saying
"Project Builder" and that
was freaking everybody out.
We were saying "Java." "Java" and
"Project Builder." I'd do sessions,
they wouldn't know what the
heck I was talking about.
So I've decided,
and I'd like the Canadians in the
room to back me up here to preserve
this notion that we pronounce
things differently in Canada,
we call it "XCOD." Is that right?
Anyway, there's two basic styles of
writing one of these scripts.
Do you want the input to your
script to come on standard input,
or do you want it to come
as command line arguments?
Experienced scripters are used to kind
of flipping a coin in a lot of scenarios,
which way they want to do it.
And Automator gives you templates
to get you started in either case.
You want to know which
way you want to use.
I think it's going to depend on
the kind of action you're writing.
If you're writing the sort of
action that's going to process
a whole body of text at once,
and you've got some Unix commands in mind
that are already reading from standard
input and writing to standard output,
like sort, for instance.
That's the command that would
sort backwards on column four.
That takes a body of text and sorts it
and spits it out as another body of text.
I do that with standard input.
But if I wanted to process a list of
each lines individually in some way,
I'd probably do it as individual
command line arguments.
I'd click the other option on that thing,
and they would be fed to my script.
As individual command line parameters
that I could loop through in that way.
I think it's going to be
different in every case,
so don't look for a blanket
recommendation for me
as to which is better.
Those are the basic run
shell script actions,
but most of the ones I was showing you
were little GUIs with Interface Builder.
How is that actually working?
Let's talk about that.
Well, with Run Shell Script,
you've got a script where you type
a script like that and away it goes.
There's not really any user interface.
With these shell script actions,
you design a little nib
file in Interface Builder,
make it look really nice,
you make it look really bulletproof
so that people can't type
words into fields that are only
supposed to have numbers in them,
for instance.
And you arrange via the miracle
of Cocoa Bindings to have the
selections the user has chosen in
the UI be reflected as environment
variables for your shell script.
This is really pretty slick.
So here's an example.
This is a sorting items action.
It's got some options.
What column do you want to sort on?
Do you want to go forwards or backwards?
And we'll build something kind
of like this in a few minutes.
So how does this actually work?
In Interface Builder,
you set up what we call Cocoa Bindings
that associate items in the
user interface with a particular
property that you want to,
or I should say,
a parameter you want to be
available in the shell script.
So as an Interface Builder developer,
I would be sketching out my UI like that.
And in the Bindings
Inspector in Interface Builder,
I would say, you know what?
I want whatever you type in that
box to be bound to a parameter
called sort column over here.
I get to pick that name, sort column.
And I would go through that for
all the various items in my UI.
I would set up bindings that say that
thing should be called remove duplicates.
That other thing should
be called direction.
And that's going to be bound to
either the word forwards or backwards,
let's say.
So you build a bunch of these bindings
using Cocoa Bindings techniques.
And at the time that your
script actually runs,
Automator collects the values
of everything in the user
interface as a bunch of pairs.
In this case, the sort column is one.
The direction is zero because
you can ask for the index of
the selected pop-up rather than
the word that's on the pop-up.
That's sometimes easier.
Anyway, Automator goes through and builds
a bunch of these keys and values.
What's in your UI?
What parameters did we want to set?
Set up some keys and values and
hand them to the shell script.
And then when your shell script,
remember it's always called main.command,
when it runs, it's getting input from
the previous stage,
and it can refer to these environment
variables in the born shell.
You would just say
dollar sign sort column.
And that's going to be a one, a two,
a three, a four.
It's going to be whatever the user
typed in that box is going to be
provided to the shell script as an
environment variable called sort
column because of the binding.
And then as the developer of this script,
I can just use the dollar sign sort
column notation to retrieve the value
of that particular environment variable.
The syntax for environment variables
will be a little different in Perl.
You've got an associative
array called env,
and you look things up by name.
But every scripting language
has some way to retrieve the
value of an environment variable.
And that's what you're getting from
these shell script actions as they run.
Then my thing sorts its input that
it got from the previous stage,
writes it to the output.
And away we go.
It wouldn't be much fun if all we
could deal with were text coming in.
Text, well, it would be fun for me.
But it wouldn't be much fun for many of
the users of Mac OS X who are used to
dealing with other things than just text.
Automator has a lot of actions
that talk about other things.
They talk about pictures,
and they talk about photos,
they talk about files in the finder.
We need a way to cope with that.
Fortunately,
Automator comes with 18 skillion
conversion actions that can
convert from different types to,
eventually, a text representation.
They can convert from a file
that's selected in the finder
into the Unix path of that file,
/volumes/steves/foo/bar, like that.
Not the AppleScript way with
the colons and everything,
that I can't really,
not my favorite way of
referring to a path name,
but they'll actually wind up giving
you a proper Unix path because
of these conversions that go
from file system objects to text.
It's very common to have a
workflow where you've got an
item that's referring to files.
There's one called
Get Selected Finder Items.
Already in Automator,
that's asking the finder
which items are selected.
It's going to make a list of them
and pass them to the next action.
If I'm writing a shell action,
I would prefer to get not
some Apple script idea of
record objects or something,
but a list of the actual Unix path names.
This will be accomplished magically
by a conversion that's tossed in there
in the middle by Automator for you.
So there's a lot of interesting
conversions in the system.
If you look in System Library Automator,
you'll see a bunch of actions
that end in .c action.
These are all conversions
that will secretly go from
one data type to another.
You can get from many...
Here's the interesting thing.
I drew this diagram.
I actually wrote... Now call
me a geek if you must.
But I actually wrote a shell script that
crawled through all the conversions,
looked at the Info.plist entries
to decide what conversions
went from what to what,
and used OmniGraffle to build a big
diagram of what I could convert.
And then the real heroes of WWDC,
if you ask any of the presenters,
the real heroes are the people from
a graphics company called Duarte
Design who do a marvelous job of
fixing up all of our diagrams.
And you're about to see the
diagram that the guy drew for me,
and it made me weep with delight when
I saw what he'd done with this diagram.
It was fabulous,
except all the arrows were
pointing in the wrong direction,
and it was kind of making
the exact opposite point that
I actually wanted to make.
But it was such a beautiful
diagram when he was done with
it that I thought I would change
my talk to match the diagram.
But he gave me this--
I like this transition.
So there's a whole lot of
Automator Transitions out there.
The ones in red and green and blue are
the ones that can actually ultimately
get converted to a text object,
which is the kind that we want.
So you can deal with iTunes tracks,
because those represent
files on the file system.
For instance,
you can deal with individual
iPhotos in a shell action,
because they're stored
as a file somewhere.
Eventually,
the path name of that file will
fall through this conversion system
and wind up being presented to your
shell-based action as a Unix path.
So let's talk about a couple of the
existing actions that are in there.
I showed you the Run Shell Script action
already where you can type a fragment
of shell script and away it goes.
Another good one is Run AppleScript.
I like AppleScript.
I like it quite a lot.
It's a mutant moon language
from the planet Sedna,
but I like it quite a lot.
Seriously Sal, I love Apple Scripts.
Sal does a great job.
Who doesn't love Sal?
Give it up for Sal!
You don't need to know
AppleScript to Sal's level to get
going with this particular action.
There's a couple of very simple
things you will find handy,
even if you are primarily
a shell programmer.
AppleScript can do a lot
in a short period of time.
This is a simple
AppleScript action that just says,
return some item of input.
Give me a random item from
something that came through before.
But the sort of thing I think
you might actually like a lot
is that AppleScript has this
thing called Do Shell Script with
Administrator Privileges.
You as system admins are going
to find this very useful.
This is a way to run a
shell script as root.
An authentication panel will pop up,
new in Tiger,
the right kind of authentication
panel will pop up,
and it will run that
shell script as root.
So if you find yourself needing
to build a workflow that's going
to do something privileged,
it's going to produce a bunch of
files and you want to do something
that requires root permission,
you may find it handy to package
what you need to do as a little
Do Shell Script and then a string of
shell code with Administrator Privileges,
and that bit will run as root.
There's no direct way in Automator to
run a shell action directly as root.
Although I have a couple of ideas
and I was passing them off to
the Automator team and I said,
what if we did it this way?
What if we hacked sudo and
we wrote something over here
and I had it all working?
They said, what are you crazy?
That's evil.
You should not encourage
people to do that.
So here's my politically correct stance.
This is how you can get a
shell script to run as root.
And maybe there are other ways,
but I can't tell you.
Talk to me later.
All right,
we want to build our own actions, though.
It's 2005.
I'm still using the same text
editor I was using in 1981,
but there has to be a new way to
actually present the input to this
shell script with interface builder.
That's what I want to show you.
You start out in Xcode.
You'll see the new shell
script Automator Action.
Isn't it great that Automator is the
first thing that you see in Xcode
when you're building a new project?
You won't be tempted to go and write
a device driver or anything like that.
You'll want to get through all these
things first before you proceed to
the 40,000 other document types.
We want to build shell
script Automator Actions.
You're going to get a typical
Xcode window like this that
has a main.command in it.
That's going to be your script
that you're going to edit.
It has a main.nib in it,
which is the user interface
you're going to design.
It has our favorite
Info.plist down at the bottom.
[Transcript missing]
All right, that's my spelling homework.
Put that away, put that away.
Eh, that was really nice, but no,
I won't save that.
So here we are in Xcode.
We're going to build a new...
Project.
Project?
What are we building here?
A project or a pro-ject?
Project.
Project?
Get on with it.
We want to build a shell
script Automator Action.
Here we go.
I'm going to call it "Incredible
Sorting Example of Doom." I hope
there's not a limit in the length
of the name of these things here.
So, here in Xcode, Xcod, here in Xcod,
I'm ready to go with my main.nib,
my main.command, and my favorite,
the Info.plist.
And we're going to want to build
something where the user can say
what column do they want to sort on.
Unix has a sort command,
and you can say sort-k4,
and it means sort on the
fourth column of the input.
We want to have a checkbox that says do
you want to sort backwards or forwards?
That's sort-r.
Sort has 53 trillion different options,
and probably an Automator Action that
encompassed all of those actions
would scroll beyond the limits
of what we have on our cinema
displays full of checkboxes.
So we're going to keep this simple.
A sword action,
do you want to go forwards or backwards,
and on what column?
What's the column delimiter?
It'll be white space in this case.
Although I may be too chicken to
actually try sorting on column two,
so we'll see how it goes.
[Transcript missing]
If you're a maximum
stud shell programmer,
you're going to edit it here rather
than use the new plist property
editor that's built into Xcode,
aren't you?
You're going to be coming back
to this rather than going to this
wussy little thing here in Xcode
where we can click on checkboxes
and pop-ups to do what we want.
We're not going to do that.
We're going to go in here,
and you absolutely must,
as a developer here, get this part right.
You have a dictionary.
It's empty here, as you can see,
which is the default
parameters of your script.
You must define in the Info.plist every
variable that you think you're going
to set in the user interface that
will be presented to the shell script.
You have to type that properly
in here as a key and a value,
or it ain't going to work.
: So here we go,
let's see if I can type a
syntactically correct plist on the fly.
I want to have a key called backwards.
Do we want to go backwards or not?
And I'll make that a, no, by default.
You give a default
value for these things.
The default for sorting
backwards is going to be false.
And I want to have
another key called column.
What column do we want to sort on?
A good default would
probably be column one.
All right, all you human plist parsers,
does that look okay?
Oh, thank you.
But you know what?
We can always cheat.
We can always say, where is it?
File, parse file as property list.
It's in here somewhere.
Well, I'm sure.
There we go.
Parse file as property list.
That's always good to check.
Oh, it is good.
Worth checking that.
If you mess this up,
and I certainly did the first
800 or 900 times I did this,
your action will appear to run properly.
But since it doesn't
actually load this thing,
nothing else is going to work.
So do take the time to verify
that that Info.plist is right.
If you must,
you have my permission to go and
use the little graphical pop-up
editor here where we can see
the parameters that are defined,
column and backwards.
If you want, you can use that.
So we've decided that we're
going to have two parameters,
a Boolean, true or false,
are we going backwards or forwards,
and a number called column that's
going to be our sort column.
I'm going to write my script in a minute.
I'm going to do a little UI work here.
Here's the simple UI of
an Automator Action.
Well, let's just say that's a nice handy
piece of text that we don't need,
but it's something to start
with a sort on column number...
By the way, if you go Apple equal sign,
it actually shrinks the thing
in Interface Builder to fit
exactly the text that you type.
Ooh, is that nice.
We want to sort on what column?
Well,
we're going to bring a text field here.
I'm going to type a column in here.
I'm going to make it better in a minute,
but for now it's going
to be a text field.
And we want to have a
checkbox called backwards.
: That would be a basic UI.
It's enough to get started.
And using the amazing
Cocoa binding system,
you'll see that you have
these inspectors here.
I want to attach the value that
the user types in that text field
with the parameter called column
that I've announced that my
Automator Action is going to use.
Then my shell script,
I can use the dollar sign
column to pick that all up.
Zoom?
You're going to have a
headache in a minute.
You asked me to zoom.
Oh, I move very slowly.
Here we go.
Oh, see,
that's what happens when you zoom.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, turn on Autosphere.
Come up here if you have a problem.
You stand here.
Yeah, what the heck, come on, let's go.
So I've forgotten where, oh yeah, column.
This is gonna be,
whatever you typed in there is gonna be
created as an environment variable called
column when your shell script runs.
And so the shell script can talk
about $column and pick up this value.
Similarly, the backwards one here,
I'm gonna bind it to another,
I'm gonna bind its value,
and check boxes have a
value of a zero or a one,
are they clicked or not?
Same idea, backwards.
Zero, it's not checked.
One, it is checked.
Backwards, okay, I've made two bindings.
I'm gonna save this and
I'm gonna go back to Xcode.
Oh, thank you very much.
I don't know.
Let's see.
We'll look in the... Oh, all right.
We'll actually use this.
The parameters inspector.
It appears to be backwards.
What did I put?
Am I binding?
I put back... I was right.
Thank you very much.
If we run one minute over,
we're going to know why now.
We're going to have to
stop and look at this.
All right,
the incredible sorting example of Doom.
Somewhere in here is a shell script.
Oh, there's my shell script.
Now,
you can see that the first line says,
what shell are we going to run?
I could change this to perl or Ruby or
something else if I wanted to use
a different programming language.
I'm going to use the
born shell right here.
And by default, it does cat.
And for style principles,
you really should set
the path equals bin,
user bin, sbin, user sbin.
This is old habits from a long time ago.
Set the path properly.
Make sure your script exits nicely.
If your script doesn't
exit with a zero status,
the whole workflow is going
to stop at that point.
So that's a little bit of
boilerplate I always like to put in.
And we've got this marvelous thing here
called Demo Monkey where I can just go
like this and it hauls in some code.
I really want Malcolm Crawford,
who wrote Demo Monkey, which is, Malcolm,
are you in here?
Love the Demo Monkey.
Loving the Demo Monkey.
Wishing that when I did that,
it made a little fake typing
sound so that people thought
I was actually typing it in.
: They would think so until I picked
up the water to try to drink it.
So here in the Bourne show,
we're saying if the
backwards variable is 1,
then we want to set something
called direction to -r,
then we're going to say
sort -k $column $direction.
So that will wind up being something
like sort -k 4 and then nothing if
I didn't check the backwards box,
or it's going to say sort -k 4 -r
if I did check the backwards box.
Does that make sense?
Well, let's see if it works, smart guy.
Let's see here.
Build, run.
You will find these things always
wind up in that big terminal bucket
when Automator actually launches.
Two errors.
Oh, isn't that interesting?
: How could there be two
errors in something so simple?
Well, you know what?
There's the Automator style
police are somehow involved here.
NSButtonBackwards uses
a non-standard font.
The text field does not
continuously update the value.
Well, actually, these are good things.
We want all of our Automator Actions
to look like other Automator Actions.
And so in the build process,
there's a little tool called AMLint
that's running and being picky,
picky, picky,
and inspecting your nib and making
sure you've built it according
to the way that the Automator
Police wants you to build Actions.
So I'm going to go back
to my NIM file here,
and I'm going to take that
backwards button and bring
up the font panel and say,
yeah, yeah, yeah,
we'll use the small system font.
That better?
And this one here is complaining,
text field does not
continuously update value.
Well, this is actually good.
In fact, I can see by looking at that
that I actually typed C-O-L-U-M.
Who's used an application on the
Mac where they type something
in a text field that doesn't
take until you hit return?
Who hates that?
Who wishes that all applications
correctly updated values,
even if you typed and you hit
tab to get out of the field
or you click somewhere else?
That's what it's warning you about here.
It wants you to arrange that this value
is always updated no matter what the user
types or whether they hit return or not.
That's a simple checkbox over here.
will be presenting his presentation
on the Automator Action System.
and his team have been working
on a new version of Automator
Action for System Administrators.
So we should be all right there.
I've made a couple of changes.
I said that should be the small font.
This should update continuously.
Let's try it now.
I think that's right.
Good.
Now it launches Automator
for you automatically.
And I'm going to find
down here in Terminal,
hopefully,
the incredible sorting example of Doom.
This is why we have the HD monitors here,
because we have very long
titles for our Automator.
I'm surprised it's not complaining
about the length of that title.
You'd think, you know,
of all the things A.M.
Lint was going to complain about,
it would say, your thing is too wide.
So let's put, let's, uh,
your action is too wide.
What did you think I said?
I'll have to pause and take a water and
collect my thoughts here for a moment.
Just excuse me.
Okay.
I can't run this right by itself.
It wouldn't really do very much useful.
It would sort nothing and
the output would vanish.
But we're going to want to add,
for starters,
we're going to want the view
results action here so we can
see what our action actually did.
And we're going to want to
supply it with some text.
One way to supply things with text
we saw before is to ask TextEdit for
the contents of the front document.
Another way, though,
is you'll find an action here
called Get Specified Text.
And this is a place where
you can just type in a little
bit of text and away it goes.
So I have a handy-dandy list here
because the season's about to start of
all your Canadian Football League teams.
Should we zoom in so we can take notes?
Write those down.
There's all your CFL teams.
And we want to sort these.
[Transcript missing]
For the benefit of anyone
from British Columbia,
we can actually run
it the other way here,
and then BC will be at the top of the
heap there and the bottom or something.
Anyway, we want to sort on column
two by the team name.
So as I'm doing this,
it's actually changing the way
it's running the sort command.
So what command is it running here?
Sort-k2, right?
If I click on the backwards box,
it's going to go sort-k2-r.
Does that make sense?
See, it's fairly straightforward to
get things out of the UI here
and bind them to a shell script.
It's still possible to mess this up,
though.
I mean, one could type, you know,
something, sort on column two.
That's probably not
going to work properly,
you know?
Not really an option.
Sort on column two, like that.
That's probably not going to work either.
We can make this UI a little
more bulletproof than that,
I think.
I firmly believe that if
you have a text field where
someone can only type a number,
you shouldn't let them type
anything other than a number.
We're passing silly options to the
sort command right at the moment.
So we might go back to,
stop Automator here,
and go back to Interface
Builder for a moment.
Here's something I like
to do for numeric input.
I like to take a text field like that,
and in the inspector, the main inspector,
not the bindings inspector,
but the main inspector,
I like to take that text field and say,
you know what,
this one is not actually editable.
It's display only.
It'll display a number, but that's it.
And I like to bring in
one of these stepper guys.
This is a little object that can
bump a numeric field up and down.
And here's the trick,
you bind it to the exact same thing
that you bound the text field to.
So I'm going to bind that guy to, oh,
here, by the time you've typed it once,
it knows what the existing bindings are.
I'm going to bind that
thing to column as well.
And you can in the inspector
for one of these guys,
start at one up to, I don't know, 100,
something like that.
So if we try this one now,
this will be a little better, I think,
from a UI perspective.
Still the same script and everything.
We'll run it again.
and in Terminal we're going to
see the incredible sorting thing.
And I can't, I can select that,
but I can't change it.
This is a little more
bulletproof way to do it.
I've got two objects bound
to the same property.
That's completely fine.
Bindings are going to
keep them all in sync.
If you make a few small
concessions like this to usability,
you're going to have a sorting
action that will be much
more useful by end users.
Your dad will be less likely
to phone you up because the
Automator Workflow you built,
he typed in the word two
rather than the number two.
My dad is buying an EMAC and he called
me this week and it hadn't arrived yet
and he wanted to know if it was because
we were putting an Intel processor in it.
I don't think so.
Not yet.
Let's go back to slides, please.
Oh, we built a script action.
Isn't that marvelous?
Now, there actually is a more elaborate
version of this exact thing
as a developer example that
I believe ships with Xcode 2.1.
It's the sort example that you see
in my terminal collection already.
It's got forwards and
backwards and numerically,
and you want to remove duplicates or not.
So there's a more elaborate version
of this exact same thing there.
Let's just review this binding thing.
It is pretty important.
You've got to get this right
or it ain't going to work.
I don't think it's that hard,
but then I've been doing it for... I've
been using Interface Builder since...
When did Next release Interface Builder?
Version 0.8?
Probably not every... I'll bet there
are people in here who have been using
Interface Builder since Next Step 0.8,
are there?
Yeah, it's easy, isn't it?
After you've been using it for 17 years,
it's easy, right?
But fortunately,
I don't think you need to know
everything about Interface
Builder to build these shell UIs.
What I showed you there is just about it.
You lay out some text
fields and you bind them,
you kind of get the hang of
this whole bindings thing.
You don't need to be a huge expert in it.
You're dragging things in,
you're going to the bindings,
and you're associating
things with a model keypath.
You've got to get all these parts right,
though.
Everything has to agree.
The binding name and the name of the
variable in the shell script and the
name of the thing in the Info.plist,
they've all got to be the same,
including case.
You can't get the caps
wrong in this scenario.
It's not going to work.
: So also when you see
this value parameter,
if all you're doing is a simple
shell script action with Automator,
don't mess with the pop-up there.
It should always say "parameters."
You're binding what you typed
here to the parameters object,
which is this special Automator
thing that's going to transfer
those values to the shell script.
It should also always say "selection,"
at least for a text field here.
So text fields are easy.
We did a text field, right?
The only little trick to remember is
to click Continuously Updates Value,
or AMLint is gonna complain.
So don't forget to do those.
Checkboxes, the same idea.
You're binding again to selection,
but this time rather than a string,
you're getting a 0 or a 1.
So your script can ask
whether a particular
environment variable is 0 or 1.
That's the born-shell syntax
for doing a numeric expression.
Two parentheses,
then the inside is evaluated numerically.
So that says if isRadioactive is 1,
then remove a file.
Now, because you're giving a
default value to this thing,
it's always going to be 0 or 1.
You don't need to really check.
Your Info.plist probably said that the
default value for this box was false,
for this parameter was false,
or 0 or something.
So you can avoid a certain amount of
silly little defensive programming here.
You don't really need to check
that that variable is defined.
If you've done it right,
it will be defined.
It will either have the default value
or the value that the user chose,
but it won't be empty.
Some of the other objects are
a little more interesting.
Sliders.
We all did the text field
and slider demo in our next
career about a thousand times.
We got quite to love these sliders.
Although I notice they're not
continuously sending actions anymore.
When did we change that?
Sliders used to be continuous.
They're not continuous anymore.
Or is it just me?
Who has a continuous slider?
It's not what you think.
Come on.
Sliders are going to
have a numeric value,
0, 1, 23.7.
You've got a bunch of parameters in the
regular interface builder inspector that
lets you set how the slider is reacting.
And so long as you bind it the right way,
you're going to have a variable in your
shell script that you can take a look at.
Radio buttons.
This gets a little more interesting.
This is actually a matrix object of,
I don't know,
NS button cells or something,
but it's really one object
that has a couple of different
things you could bind to.
You'll see in the inspector,
in the bindings inspector
for a matrix like this,
you have a choice.
Do you want to bind to the content,
or the content objects,
the content values,
or the selected index,
or the selected object, selected tag?
A couple of them are
more useful than others.
Selected index will give you the
number of the thing that was selected,
01.
02.
This might be a good idea if
you were planning on localizing
your application later.
Just in your script,
deal with the number that the
user chose rather than the string.
But if you're lazy like me,
you can just ask,
bind to the selected value,
and you're going to get an object
that corresponds to the word that
was actually shown on the pop-up.
Interface Builder, by the way,
when you bring in radio
buttons like this,
you get two of them,
and you hold down the Option key
and you drag the corner and
you get a bunch of them.
If you ever wanted to know how to make
a whole lot of radio buttons like that.
Or the Control key or something.
I don't know.
I have to do it four or five times myself
to find the one that actually turns one.
Which is it?
Option?
Command?
Shift?
Letter K?
Anybody remember?
I think it's Option, isn't it?
It was on the slide,
but that doesn't mean it's right.
[Transcript missing]
You can ask for the selected index, 0, 1,
2, or 3, or you can ask for the actual
word that was on the pop-up.
Your choice when you hook up the binding.
You can bind either the selected
index or selected value.
also knew, by the way,
completely changing gears for a moment,
did you know that there was a
user bin automator with Xcode 2.1?
Thank you.
Well,
just hold your applause for a second
until I tell you what it actually does.
Or maybe we should stop here.
This runs workflows
from the command line.
Automator and then some workflow.
And it runs the workflow
from the command line.
There are some limitations.
I don't think user interaction can work.
I don't think you can run
this if nobody is logged in.
I don't think you can
do it as a login hook,
which is what I really was hoping for.
It's a good start.
But it is a way that you could
incorporate the running of an Automator
workflow into a shell script if you
want to flip things totally inside out.
I have an Automator workflow that
actually builds dashboard widgets.
I was trying to cut down on the
number of demos I had to do.
And I thought maybe I could then
have a dashboard widget that used
this to run an Automator workflow.
And they could duke it
out during the demo.
And I could just go off and see.
I'd have to try that.
Maybe next year.
Let me give you a few random tips and
then I'm going to show you a couple more
interesting workflows and try to build
something that solves an actual problem.
It's not like me to get that far.
A couple of tips here.
There isn't really a
debugger for shell scripts.
Perl has a debugger,
but it would be a little weird to
use it in this Automator context.
But I want to encourage you to
drop this view results thing in all
over the place as you're developing
a sequence of these actions.
View results.
It'll fit in anywhere.
It accepts anything.
It just copies it to the next stage
and it prints out what it was.
With the colons.
And this is a great debugger.
Of the available
Automator debugging tools,
this is one of the premier ones.
The other one, no.
Another one is ask for confirmation
is a way to get your script to stop
at a certain point while you think.
And if you haven't got like
a clapper action on hand,
this is a way to get it to stop and
put up a little UI and wait for it.
You can look around,
did it create the file
I thought it was going to?
Did it actually tell
iPhone to do something?
So ask for results and wait for
confirmation or ask for confirmation
or two very useful examples here.
And Automator itself is
actually Apple scriptable.
The Automator engineering team
has told me that this is scary.
They've written self-modifying
workflows that as they run,
send messages to Automator to
add and remove things on the
fly from the current workflow.
All you people who want Automator
to do branching and looping,
here you go.
There is, by the way, incidentally,
there is an Automator Workflow that
executes other Automator Workflows.
You might have seen this.
You can, I don't recommend this,
you can make your Automator Workflow loop
if you save it in a file and the last
thing is execute this workflow again,
this exact same workflow.
It may be hard to stop it at this point.
But I actually, honestly,
I did find that kind of handy.
I put in a,
there's a pause workflow action that
waits for a certain number of seconds,
then I had it run my workflow again.
So it just sat there and ran for a while,
creating dashboard widgets and opening
them until my screen was actually full.
You may find an actual use for this.
If you do, please drop me an email.
But...
Let me show you something over
here on this scriptability idea.
Could I have demo two?
Oh, way ahead of me.
Could I have demo one?
And could I have the slides?
Now could I have demo one?
and Demo 2.
Can we put this FireWire
disk up on the screen?
Is that possible?
Why did they come over here?
Oh, yeah.
You can rig these view results
thing in on your own if you want,
but if you had something like,
what was I doing before?
Sort on column O,
and we'll bring in the text edit
thing with get contents of text thing.
There are scripts that you can,
you can come up with scripts that do
things like include view results in
between every pair of actions in here.
See if it actually works.
This is the first time I've tried it.
Okay, well,
theoretically it is possible to run
scripts that will tell Automator,
"Try
Oh, okay, try it again.
I have no faith that this will
actually do anything different,
but we'll try it again.
Although I've been using computers
long enough to know that just
because it doesn't work in the
first try doesn't mean it's not
going to work in the second try.
Let's go back to slides for a moment.
All right, how about we don't demo that?
Here's another tip.
You know what shell scripts
and perl scripts and so on
usually have two output streams.
The standard output,
which is what flows in
Automator to the next stage,
text usually, and the standard error,
which is where interesting error messages
will be discarded automatically by
Automator so you can never see them.
If you have something
which is not working,
you may find it handy to redirect
the standard error stream somewhere
other than the null device.
I find it handy to do this.
See that there, exec2 into devconsole?
That takes the standard error stream
and redirects it to the console device,
which means that any errors
this script produces,
I'm going to be able to watch
them in the console application.
I can fire up console and see error
messages from my Automator app,
if any.
I can even do a command like the echo
there to actually direct a statement
in my shell script to the error device
and then it goes to the console.
So that can be actually kind of handy.
I put this kind of thing
in my scripts all the time.
Set-XV, Exec 2 into Dev Console.
I was using the shell for, I swear,
15 years before I understood what
these two lines actually did.
Someone showed them to
me in 1983 and said,
here, trust me,
someday you'll be presenting
to a lot of people and you'll
want to use this example.
Set-XV in the Born shell turns on
a form of shell debugging where it
will echo every line as it's about
to execute and it will take all the
dollar sign things and expand them.
And if you do that and redirect
it to the console device,
you'll get a beautiful log of how
your shell script is actually running,
exactly what it's trying to do for
every single line of shell script.
This can be a marvelous
debugging technique.
Printenv is also a useful command
that you might want to put in.
Let me just show you why here.
We have, uh,
you didn't wait until I asked for it.
I'm gonna have to do it again.
Hang on.
Wait for me.
My show.
I have slides.
And can I have demo two?
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
I forget why I came over here.
Oh yeah,
let me just show you a couple little
debugging things and then we'll try to
assemble a potentially useful workflow.
Let's see, let me build a new one here.
I'm going to build a shell script
Automator Action that does not
really actually do anything.
Does not do anything.
Much.
version one.
I feel like putting parentheses in
a file name is a bad idea somehow.
[Transcript missing]
AM default parameters.
Here we go, indict.
Key foo, key string.
"Nothing.
String.
Key.
Bar.
Isn't this exciting?
Isn't this the best
part of WWC right here?
What if my cab's here yet?
That's what you're all thinking.
Is my cab here yet?
Is he going to remember to take out
that last dictionary that's sitting
right-- Can he type the word 'dict'?
Where's my spell checking workflow?
Ugh!"
So I just want to bind two things, right?
I want to bind two things.
And I got one called foo
and I got one called bar.
And I'm going to bind...
and his team will be presenting the next
session of Automator Action Sessions.
Okay, selected value.
And this one here, I'm going to bind the
value of the checkbox,
which is a 1 or a 0 to bar.
Okay?
Simple?
So, uh... And remember,
my script is just gonna say printenv.
Printenv is a Unix command that
merely prints the value of all
the current environment variables.
So if I've got a little
script like this here,
let's check the syntax of this
while we're just waiting here.
Parse selection is property list.
Parse file is property list.
Oh, phew, that's always nice.
Oh, what did I forget?
Command bin sh failed with exit code one.
Aha, I always make, what is that?
Couldn't read.
What's wrong with it?
No, it hasn't got that far yet.
It's not actually,
uh... It's running the build script.
Put up the slides for a moment.
Thank you.
In fact, you know what,
let's go back to that movie.
I love that movie on the first slide,
you know?
Steve, the name is too long.
Get out.
The name is too long?
Oh, a trailing space.
What kind of fool am I?
Don't answer that.
It's a rhetorical question.
When I come back, I want to know what the
purple thing with an S is.
I don't know what that is.
I've seen it go by four
or five times already.
All right, you can come back over here.
You can come back over to this one.
Doesn't do anything
much yet with no space.
Think that'll be better?
Thank you, everybody.
Radar, where is Radar?
Cannot create project
whose name ends in space.
How many people think, like me,
that should be a priority one bug?
Here we go, real fast.
I'll just do one thing here.
We'll get the pop-up.
Whoops, hang on.
Bring in a pop-up and make him small.
is a small size and we're
going to bind him to,
to bind his selected value to foo,
and then I'm going to
go fix the Info.plist.
I'm going to fix the Info.plist.
And do you think I would be able
to cut and paste this by now
or use the demo typing monkey,
but...
[Transcript missing]
I like to put it on its own line, okay?
Like that.
Jeez.
And back in our script,
what were we doing?
Printing NV or something
pointless like that?
All right, where are we here?
What a great example, huh?
Watch it fail again because
it's still too long.
Okay, this time it's working.
Phew.
So here comes a script with
a somewhat pointless UI.
Does not do anything yet.
Oh, it's got a pop-up.
I forgot to take that up,
but we don't care.
We're all friends, right?
I'm so glad we're having this rehearsal.
You know, I love these WWDC rehearsals.
Conference next week is
going to be so great.
You're all so kind for
sitting through this here.
[Transcript missing]
But seriously,
this is actually a fairly useful
way to debug what's going on.
If you've got a whole bunch of
bindings and something went wrong
and you can't figure out why,
just check it here.
And while you're at it,
let's just pretend that this
particular UI was-- there was
more going on in this script.
So I'm going to redirect
printenv to devconsole.
And I'm going to start up the, yeah,
you know what,
just because I was waiting, all right?
Maybe there was going
to be more in that line.
That's why that backslash is there.
So we'll run that again and
I'll go find the console app
that I forgot to put in my doc.
: Spotlight.
I've heard about that.
Is that good?
So console is constantly
displaying everything that went
to a certain output device.
And we'll try Automator here
with this modified-- oh,
sorry, it's in terminal.
Does not actually do anything yet.
Run that now.
And the output of that command should
appear down here in the console.
Oh, there's the output of
printenv in the console.
That's a nice way--
If I'd known you were going to
clap or something like that,
I wouldn't have wasted so
much time on the slides.
Let me show you one last thing,
then I'll take a couple of questions,
because I can see we're
almost out of time here.
I decided that it might be useful
to do an actual practical workflow.
How many times has this happened to you?
Here's my iPod.
It's connected to this computer.
Oh, it's in use.
It could not be ejected.
Please quit some random
application and see if that helps.
Would it kill the finder to give you
a hint about what application it was?
Well, there happens to be a majestic
Unix command called LSOF.
And LSOF will give you a ton
of data about every process and
every file that it has open.
And if you can manage to get through
the incredibly long LSOF man page,
you may discover one or two that can
restrict it to a certain file system.
So I had this idea that I'd
write a workflow that would
solve this problem for me.
so
Here's a trick.
Control-click on anything in
the finder and you can say
Automator create workflow.
It will make a new workflow
that starts out with that thing.
That's kind of nice.
So there's a workflow
that starts out with that.
We're going to add a plain ordinary
shell script because I previously looked
up the actual command that I want.
Actually, this has to go to arguments.
And we're going to delete that here.
And we want to bring in a little bit of
LSOF command that will actually tell me
Yeah, zoom, zoom.
That's going to say --
see that dollar sign,
ad sign?
That says take the output
of the previous command,
which is going to be the path name
that was selected in that first thing.
And run LSOF with these mystery
arguments on it and show me the results.
Well, if we run that, oh,
here's some output.
Bash and Microsoft Word and
there's a bunch of process IDs.
And I want to cut that down and
make that a little more useful.
So let me hide that and hide that,
because the scroll is better when
you hide some of these things.
And bring in a few of these other work
flows that I previously alluded to.
See how we're getting
a lot of stuff here?
I've got this nice one called
filter text by position.
And what I really want is line two
through the end and the first field.
This script,
this particular work flow happens to
run a big honking Perl script that
parses things and gives you the first
and lines and the last three lines or
the fourth field or whatever you want.
So if we run that,
we'll see that the result
we're actually getting here,
this is better.
It's a list,
one bash and Microsoft Word seems
to have that device open twice.
Well, we can put in the sort thing
and say remove the duplicates.
That will narrow it
Now we're down to just, hopefully,
Bash and Microsoft Word.
And I'd like to present--this is a list,
and I'd like to present it to the user.
Now, I don't know if there is a good
Automator Action that presents
a list of things to the user,
but this is a fairly easy
thing to do in AppleScript.
I'm getting a list of strings,
and I'd like to say,
"Choose from list that list
of strings with prompt.
Here is the guilty process."
: Now, when I was first developing this,
I was going to kill the
process immediately after that,
but I thought that might
be a little destructive.
So I think we'll leave it as this,
but can you see how you can
actually string some of these
things together and come up with
something that might be useful?
This, if I were to give you this one,
this wouldn't be that useful because
it's always telling you about my iPod,
which is maybe not that helpful.
I'm going to try something
here that may or may not work.
So far it has worked about two out
of three times that I've tried it.
I'm going to delete that thing that
says "Start out with my iPod," and I'm
going to save this in a special way.
I'm going to save it as a Finder plugin.
Why can I not eject this freaking disk?
That's now a Finder plugin.
Automator lets you
save things as plugins,
which means you can now go over here
and you can control-click on that.
Automator.
Why can I not eject this freaking disk?
Thank you.
I'll be happy to take a few
questions if there are any questions.
I know people want to get out of here
and get on their planes because we're all
going to the football game in Halifax,
Nova Scotia tomorrow.
Have we got any questions?
I think there's a few.
Are there anybody here from the Automator
team that I might be able to pass
these questions to if they get hard?
Alright,
I'd be happy to take a few questions.
Yes, up in the front.
One quick comment.
Any actions you guys come up with,
go to AutomatorActions.com
and submit them.
Share them with the world.
I know that's what you're all about,
open source and all that.
So log on and put them on there, please.
Are there any good books about
Apple script programming in general,
Hanan Rosenthal?
Yeah, let's...
Oh, he's got one.
What do you know?
How shameless of you.
Have you got one for me?
That would be a nice turnaround
if you had a book for me.
If you want to carry three and a half
pounds worth of paper to Nova Scotia.
Any other questions?
I'm hanging around for a bit.
If anybody's got any questions,
I'd be happy to take them up front.
I thank you all very much for
staying to the end of WWC,
and I hope you enjoyed the show.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.